I mean that you're weak.
Far too weak.
Dai: Too weak? W-What
are you talking about?
Master Avan is the
strongest person ever!
Once upon a time, maybe...
But not anymore.
Even if he is on our side
in this final battle,
without that strength
he'll meet a tragic end.
Hyunckel, how can
you say that?
Popp: Look at him!
He hasn't lost his edge.
I mean... he saved us from
Killvearn's trap, didn't he?
He countered a spell.
It doesn't mean that he has
enough power to defeat
King Vearn, Popp.
Well, of course he does.
You're losing it, man.
Hyunckel: Just think about it.
Hadlar already defeated him
using his original form.
If Avan had faced him again
after he became
a Superior Being,
I doubt he would
stand a chance.
Our fight has reached a level
far beyond his abilities.
At this point,
what's the use in bringing
someone so weak along with us?
Hyunckel: We've all faced
enemies more powerful
than anything
he's encountered,
and our battles have
honed our skills.
In fact, I'd bet that
because of those trials,
our power eclipsed
Avan's long ago.
You could sense
Hadlar's strength -
did he seem like
somebody you could beat?
Because the current Hero
fought him alone and won.
He even improved
your greatest attack.
Which is all to
say that Dai has
grown even stronger
than yourself.
Wouldn't you agree?
Indeed. I wouldn't
have it any other way.
Raw power alone?
I would imagine I'm not
even half as strong as Dai.
Hyunckel: An accurate
assessment, as always.
From the "Former Hero", Avan.
Shut up!
Popp?
Cut it out.
You were just as torn up as the
rest of us when he showed up.
I don't know where all
this attitude's coming from,
but it's really starting
to get on my nerves!
Who cares which one
of them is stronger?
What matters is,
Master came all this
way just to help us out.
Isn't that enough?
Why question his kindness?
Kindness doesn't win battles.
Just, listen. I'm only trying
to state the facts here.
As it stands, Avan is weaker
than Dai, me, and even you.
Relying on him
would be a mistake.
Why, you...
No!
But Maam... He just...
Either way. The point is;
I refuse it...
A man like him can
no longer be our leader.
If you all want to
keep following him,
I won't stop you.
But as for me...
I'm staying right here.
Hyunckel...
I know it can't
be easy to open up to
Master Avan with your
history... but...
Just forget it, Maam.
Let him stay
here and sulk it out.
If this is how he's gonna be,
we're better off without him.
Hyunckel, even if everything
you've said is true...
I'd like you to reconsider.
Avan [thought]: I see...
Very well, then.
Everyone, it's time
for us to press onward.
Huh?
But... But...
Master, hang on...
It's all right.
He's made himself clear,
and we should
respect his wishes.
If this is truly what he wants,
then who am I to stop him?
Yeah. Everything'll be okay.
Hey, Maam?
Try not to worry. I'm sure
he'll be right behind us.
Right...
Vearn: Mystvearn.
Mystvearn: Yes, sire?
Vearn: These antics are
taking far too long.
Return to the palace at once.
Mystvearn: Is there
an issue, my liege?
Vearn: A strange
turn of events.
Avan De Zinuar has
returned from the dead.
Mystvearn: Avan? The Hero,
Avan? Interesting...
But even if he's returned,
I doubt he possesses
the strength
to be of any threat to you.
Don't be a fool!
Vearn: It's not Avan's
strength that concerns me.
His protege has already
surpassed him in that regard.
The former Hero
possesses a quality
far more dangerous
than strength alone.
It's why back in the old days,
I ordered Hadlar to stop him -
he inspires hope
among the humans.
And hope can be
a powerful weapon.
Its strength is different
than the kind I believe in...
And Avan is the source of it.
If we don't deal with him,
his disciples' power
will continue to grow.
Mystvearn: What of Killvearn?
I'm sure he would
make swift work of them.
Vearn: Try not to
forget, Mystvearn.
Although you and the
Reaper share my name,
you have little
else in common.
He serves an entirely
different purpose.
Vearn: Unlike you, it is
not his job to protect me.
He exists to destroy.
That is all.
Avan is quite intelligent,
but he made a grave
error in their last encounter.
He merely wounded his enemy
when he should have
finished the job.
That stupid old Hero
was such a meanie.
I can't believe he
ruined our favorite mask.
Yes... I know that when
left to his own devices...
Killvearn will
seek vengeance.
Vearn: However,
Avan's return has given
Dai and the others
momentum. Stop them.
Mystvearn: I shall.
Mystvearn [thought]:
But, first...
You're still worried
about him, huh?
Yeah.
Whatever happens,
it's his fault.
Maybe...
It's just not like Hyunckel
to abandon us right
before our biggest battle.
He's just never
been so selfish.
Avan: Exactly.
Master... uh, what
do you mean by that?
Avan: Everybody, listen up.
Once we approach that entrance
the palace guards
will be alerted.
When that happens,
Hyunckel will be swarmed
by a legion of enemies.
Popp: Why would he
hang back for that?
Don't be so dense.
You of all people should
understand what he's up to.
Think...
You once did exactly
the same thing...
back in our battle with
the Dragon Masters, remember?
Popp [thought]:
That's right...
I wanted everyone
to be able to
focus on helping Dai
get his memories back,
so I pretended to
abandon the group...
and ran off to
face them alone.
Hyunckel, no!
He can't do this alone.
He can't beat them.
Try to have a little faith.
Consider... what feelings
would make him want to stay?
If I'm right,
then he was able to sense the
true extent of my powers...
Avan: And he understands that
the rest of you are going to
need my help in order to
navigate the palace safely.
So he took on the responsibility
of holding off our foes.
But if any of you knew
what he was planning...
you would never have left him
to face such a threat alone -
he knew he had to hide
his true intentions.
Do you mean...
Are you saying that you
knew what he intended
and you played along?
Yes. I could see it
with just a glance.
When I trained him as a boy,
Hyunckel would
often trouble me
by saying and doing things
that he really didn't mean.
And every time he did,
he'd get that look...
A sort of mix between
sadness and regret
that filled his eyes...
There's no mistaking it.
Now, come on.
You aren't getting
any further than this.
Popp [thought]:
Unbelievable.
Why does he always have
to pull these stunts?
I can't stand it.
Acting like he
knows everything...
and keeping the rest of us in
the dark like we're children.
He goes and hogs all
the glory, again and again.
Well, enjoy it one
last time, Hyunckel...
and don't you
dare mess this up.
The next time I see you -
I'm kicking your butt.
And that's a promise...
so I'm counting on
you to survive this.
Took you long enough.
So who wants to go down first?
There's only one of you?
Wow is he dumb!
Monster: You're
outnumbered, little man.
Unless you get through us,
you'll never make it
inside the palace.
Well, in that case...
I guess there's
nothing to fear.
Both: What?
Hyunckel: First of all,
taking care of you halfwits
will be a walk in the park.
And secondly...
if you're all out here, that
means there's no one inside
to get in the
way of my friends...
I just have to keep you busy.
Why, you little brat...
You're gonna regret it!
Monster: Get him!
That does it...
Monsters: [furious roaring]
Sounds like they're
getting started.
You think he'll be okay?
I trained him
myself, remember?
And even though he only did
it because of a grudge...
It seems as if he was
actually paying attention
to everything I taught him.
As a matter of fact...
at this very moment he's using
a strategy that I came up with
for infiltrating
enemy territory.
You see, when you're laying
siege upon a fortress,
the most important
measure to take...
is not to overcome your
adversary's forces -
but rather to keep them from
flanking you on your approach.
Avan: Once the battle begins
your vision will tunnel,
making it easy to
be taken off-guard.
The greatest danger is
being attacked from behind.
That's why when you're
choosing a formation,
it's crucial to have
a powerful fighter
at the front of your party...
And more importantly, another
one playing the rearguard.
Avan: I played that role
earlier and held off the Reaper
while the rest of you
made your way up here...
Hyunckel's doing the same.
Wait... That's what you were
doing? Fighting Killvearn?
No way. I thought
Hadlar took him out.
He tried,
but a being like Killvearn
has many tricks up his sleeve.
It would seem
Hyunckel noticed
and decided to
return the favor.
Then how on earth did
you catch up with us?
Avan: Magic.
A teleportation spell.
A new one I've
attained called Zip.
It's become quite handy.
Never heard of Zip...
It's a variation of Zoom.
Its power allows
the user to regroup
with their allies
almost instantly.
It's a mystical
enchantment normally used by
adventurers to
get back on track
if they find themselves
lost in a labyrinth.
A labyrinth?
M-Master Avan...
Does... does
that mean you...
Were you where
I think you were?
Huh? No way...
That's a big gate!
It almost looks...
like the Dark Citadel Gate,
only this one is a lot bigger,
and I'll bet
it's even stronger.
Are you kidding?
But you and your dad
barely breached that one...
You had to combine your power.
If this one's worse,
I don't know what we'll do -
it might be impossible.
There's gotta
be something, Dai.
I mean... Coming all this
way just to hit a dead end?
Avan: There is something.
Now stand back.
This is the reason.
Why Hyunckel gave me the
lead while he stayed behind.
I know exactly how
to deal with this gate.
I'll have to unleash...
the greatest power...
The greatest power...
I attained in all
of my training.
All: Training?
That's right.
I've spent all
this time away...
Honing skills for
this very battle...
I was deep underground
in the Carl Kingdom...
in the deepest shadows
of the Cave of Trials.
All: What?!
Wait a sec. Isn't
the Cave of Trials...
W-where Leona...
found that Kaglimmer spell?
I guess that makes sense...
I knew it!
That means, Master Avan...
you must've gone even
deeper than we did.
Amazing...
You went all the way to
the lowest levels
of the cavern, right?
Leona: And down there,
you found Purifying Spells
that were even more powerful.
Back then, on the day
I lost to Hadlar...
even though I was spared
thanks to the charm
inside my Amulet of Carl,
the force of the Megante...
still took its
toll on my body.
I was sent flying...
Before I hit the ground,
everything went black.
Avan: When I came to, I found
myself adrift in the ocean
off the coast
of Dermline Island.
That's when I realized
the amulet had saved me.
It was almost as if I could hear
the God of Humanity whispering,
"You aren't finished yet."
Dai, and Popp...
I was there,
watching as you took your first
steps on this long journey.
Avan: Broken and
battered, I saw it all.
It would have been so easy
to call out and join
you on your adventure...
To share the full wealth
of my knowledge...
But I was too ashamed
to bring myself to do it.
Make no mistake,
I wanted to help you both
continue to learn and grow...
only after what happened,
I wasn't able to
forgive my own weakness.
I sensed that Dai's
inherent strength
already exceeded my own...
more than any pupil I'd ever
crossed paths with before.
If I went with you, I would
only hinder your progress...
Avan: If I wanted to be
of use, I had work to do.
I needed to train
myself in body and mind,
and gather a new
set of abilities
that would give
you an advantage...
otherwise I wouldn't be
worthy to fight by your side.
Avan: And so I decided to
perfect my purification magic.
I journeyed back
to my homeland
to use the Cave of Trials
as my training grounds.
If there were any place
in existence that could
give me what I needed,
it was there.
Avan: Even if I was
lacking in strength,
I knew with the right
incantations under my belt,
I could help you
defeat the Dark King.
Dai [thought]: I get it.
That explains everything.
Popp [thought]: Master never
really abandoned us...
He was gone all
this time because
he was searching
for a way to help.
Maam [thought]:
He's been fighting
just as hard as
the rest of us...
and all on his own, too.
From there,
my training began, and
over the next few months,
I continued deeper into
the Cave of Trials,
searching every
chamber to collect
the ultimate
Purifying Spell-craft.
Once I passed
the fiftieth level,
there were no more
spells to find...
and the labyrinth became
even more complex.
By that point,
I was running low...
on healing items and rations.
All that lay ahead of me was
a countless number
of terrifying traps.
But... we can discuss
the rest of my
adventures another time.
Basically, at its
deepest levels,
the cave tests the explorer's
knowledge and resolve.
Many never find a way back.
When Princess Leona
obtained her Kaglimmer
on one of the upper levels,
its power rippled
all the way to me.
That's how I knew the final
battle was nearly at hand.
Well done, Your Highness.
Avan: By the way, what level
were you on when you did it?
Twenty-five floors
underground.
And how far down were you?
You must've been close.
Let's see...
I believe I was
somewhere around
one-hundred and
fifty levels down.
For a human... that might
be a new record, you know?
[chuckling]
Avan: Well, then.
Now... Shall we see if
all that work was worth it?
Leona [thought]: So this is
Master Avan's Purifying Magic.
[roaring]
Hyunckel [thought]:
I was right.
Avan attained the
power of purification.
A stronger purification
spell than Kaglimmer...
I can't even imagine it.
I know, but master has all
kinds of powerful magic, right?
Especially if
he went a whole
one-hundred-and-fifty
levels down.
That's... well...
that's six times deeper
than twenty-five, so...
it must be six
times more powerful.
That's not how
it works, Popp.
You aren't going to get the
answer using simple arithmetic.
Popp: Huh?
Math and magic aside,
we don't have
a spell that's more powerful
than Kaglimmer at the moment.
It's possible...
But it would have
to be hidden somewhere
even deeper
within the cavern...
And I never found it.
Even in all the
chambers I explored -
and believe me,
there were many.
Then... what spell are
you casting right now?
Oh, it isn't a
spell at all. No...
"Secret Way of Purification."
Secret Way of Purification?
Watch and learn. It may
prove to be very useful.
It looks just
like a Kaglimmer.
I see - I think I understand
how it works after all!
Both: Huh?
It's not a spell,
it's a method;
a secret way to amplify an
incantation's purifying energy.
Yes! That's correct.
Once you master this Secret Way,
the effects of many spells...
Ones that neutralize dark
magic - can be amplified.
Beyond their limits!
When I rescued Popp
from Killvearn's trap,
I used the
barrier-neutralizing spell...
Safe Passage... and with
the Secret Way, I enhanced it.
Clearing the flames!
Popp [thought]: He did
that with a simple
Safe Passage spell?
And obviously...
This... There's only one
spell to use against
a locked door such as this.
I get it. It's a
spell for unlocking!
Now... Click!
Dark portal, sealed off
since ancient times...
I command you to open.
Popp [thought]: It's
exactly the same as before.
It really worked!
Monster: How?
That's impossible!
Monster: The palace gate
hasn't opened in centuries...
It is now! Oh, boy...
Hyunckel: I knew you
could do it, Master Avan.
And as for the rest of you,
seems like our walk in the park
will have to be cut
a little short.
Monsters: [furious roaring]
Narrator: As their
allies in Loroi Valley
corner Zaboera's forces,
Avan and his Disciples
prepare to face King Vearn,
and Hyunckel holds
off the horde of monsters
intent on stopping them.
With Avan scouting the palace,
he finds himself in need of
a favor from Princess Leona.
Back on the surface...
the Mystic Bishop unleashes
a surprise that leaves
Crocodine and the
others scrambling.
See how it all unfolds
on the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Steady
Advance of Justice".